dh_pypy.rst, before:

=========
 dh_pypy
=========

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
calculates PyPy dependencies, adds maintainer scripts to byte compile files, etc.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1
:Author: Piotr Ożarowski, 2013

SYNOPSIS
========
  dh_pypy -p PACKAGE [-V [X.Y][-][A.B]] DIR [-X REGEXPR]

DESCRIPTION
===========

QUICK GUIDE FOR MAINTAINERS
---------------------------

 * build-depend on pypy and dh-python,
 * add `${pypy:Depends}` to Depends
 * build module/application using its standard build system,
 * install files to the standard locations,
 * add `pypy` to dh's --with option, or:
 * call ``dh_pypy`` in the `binary-*` target,

NOTES
-----

dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~
dh_pypy tries to translate Python dependencies from requires.txt file to
Debian dependencies. Use debian/pypydist-overrides or --no-guessing-deps option
to override it if the guess is incorrect. If you want dh_pypy to generate
more strict dependencies (f.e. to avoid ABI problems) create
debian/pypy-foo.pydist file. See /usr/share/doc/dh-python/README.PyDist
for more information. If the pydist file contains PEP386 flag or set of (uscan
like) rules, dh_pypy will make the depedency versioned (version requirements
are ignored by default).

private dirs
~~~~~~~~~~~~
`/usr/share/foo`, `/usr/share/games/foo`, `/usr/lib/foo` and
`/usr/lib/games/foo` private directories are scanned for Python files by
default (where `foo` is binary package name). If your package is shipping
Python files in some other directory, add another dh_pypy call in debian/rules
with directory name as an argument - you can use different set of options in
this call. If you need to change options for a private directory that is
checked by default, invoke dh_pypy with --skip-private option and add another
call with a path to this directory and new options.

debug packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In binary packages which name ends with `-dbg`, all files in
`/usr/lib/pypy/dist-packages/` directory that have extensions different than
`so` or `h` are removed by default. Use --no-dbg-cleaning option to disable
this feature.

overriding supported / default PyPy versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you want to override system's list of supported PyPy versions or the
default one (f.e. to build a package that includes symlinks for older version
of PyPy or compile .py files only for given interpreter version), you can do
that via `DEBPYPY_SUPPORTED` and/or `DEBPYPY_DEFAULT` env. variables.


OPTIONS
=======
--version	show program's version number and exit

-h, --help	show help message and exit

--no-guessing-deps	disable guessing dependencies

--no-dbg-cleaning	do not remove any files from debug packages
    
--no-ext-rename	do not add magic tags nor multiarch tuples to extension file names

--no-shebang-rewrite	do not rewrite shebangs

--skip-private	don't check private directories

-v, --verbose	turn verbose mode on

-i, --indep	act on architecture independent packages

-a, --arch	act on architecture dependent packages

-q, --quiet	be quiet

-p PACKAGE, --package=PACKAGE	act on the package named PACKAGE

-N NO_PACKAGE, --no-package=NO_PACKAGE	do not act on the specified package

-X REGEXPR, --exclude=REGEXPR	exclude items that match given REGEXPR. You may
  use this option multiple times to build up a list of things to exclude.

--compile-all	compile all files from given private directory in postinst/rtupdate
  not just the ones provided by the package (i.e. do not pass the --package
  parameter to py3compile/py3clean)

--depends=DEPENDS	translate given requirements into Debian dependencies
  and add them to ${pypy:Depends}. Use it for missing items in requires.txt

--recommends=RECOMMENDS		translate given requirements into Debian dependencies
  and add them to ${pypy:Recommends}

--suggests=SUGGESTS	translate given requirements into Debian dependencies
  and add them to ${pypy:Suggests}

--requires=FILENAME	translate requirements from given file(s) into Debian
  dependencies and add them to ${pypy:Depends}

--shebang=COMMAND	use given command as shebang in scripts

--ignore-shebangs	do not translate shebangs into Debian dependencies

SEE ALSO
========
* /usr/share/doc/dh-python/README.PyDist
* pybuild(1)
* http://deb.li/dhpy - most recent version of this document

Commit message:

dh_py*.rst: clarify purpose of .pydist files (closes: 778633)

dh_pypy.rst, after:

=========
 dh_pypy
=========

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
calculates PyPy dependencies, adds maintainer scripts to byte compile files, etc.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1
:Author: Piotr Ożarowski, 2013

SYNOPSIS
========
  dh_pypy -p PACKAGE [-V [X.Y][-][A.B]] DIR [-X REGEXPR]

DESCRIPTION
===========

QUICK GUIDE FOR MAINTAINERS
---------------------------

 * build-depend on pypy and dh-python,
 * add `${pypy:Depends}` to Depends
 * build module/application using its standard build system,
 * install files to the standard locations,
 * add `pypy` to dh's --with option, or:
 * call ``dh_pypy`` in the `binary-*` target,

NOTES
-----

dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~
dh_pypy tries to translate Python dependencies from the `requires.txt` file
to Debian dependencies. In many cases, this works without any additional
configuration because dh_pypy comes with a build-in mapping of Python module
names to Debian packages that is periodically regenerated from the Debian
archive. By default, the version information in the Python dependencies is
discarded. If you want dh_pypy to generate more strict dependencies (e.g. to
avoid ABI problems), or if the automatic mapping does not work correctly for
your package, you have to provide dh_pypy with additional rules for the
translation of Python module to Debian package dependencies.

For a package *pypy-foo* that depends on a package *pypy-bar*, there are
two files that may provide such rules:

#. If the *pypy-foo* source package ships with a
   `debian/pypy-overrides` file, this file is used by dh_pypy
   during the build of *pypy-foo*.

#. If the *pypy-bar* source package ships with a
   `debian/pypy-bar.pydist` file (and uses dh_pypy), this file
   will be included in the binary package as
   `/usr/share/dh-python/dist/pypy/pypy-bar`. During the build
   of *pypy-foo*, dh_pypy will then find and use the file.

Both files have the same format described in
`/usr/share/doc/dh-python/README.PyDist`. If all you want is to generate
versioned dependencies (and assuming that the *pypy-bar* package provides
the *pybar* Python module), in most cases it will be sufficient to put the line
``pybar pypy-bar; PEP386`` into either of the above files.

private dirs
~~~~~~~~~~~~
`/usr/share/foo`, `/usr/share/games/foo`, `/usr/lib/foo` and
`/usr/lib/games/foo` private directories are scanned for Python files by
default (where `foo` is binary package name). If your package is shipping
Python files in some other directory, add another dh_pypy call in debian/rules
with directory name as an argument - you can use different set of options in
this call. If you need to change options for a private directory that is
checked by default, invoke dh_pypy with --skip-private option and add another
call with a path to this directory and new options.

debug packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In binary packages which name ends with `-dbg`, all files in
`/usr/lib/pypy/dist-packages/` directory that have extensions different than
`so` or `h` are removed by default. Use --no-dbg-cleaning option to disable
this feature.

overriding supported / default PyPy versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you want to override system's list of supported PyPy versions or the
default one (f.e. to build a package that includes symlinks for older version
of PyPy or compile .py files only for given interpreter version), you can do
that via `DEBPYPY_SUPPORTED` and/or `DEBPYPY_DEFAULT` env. variables.


OPTIONS
=======
--version	show program's version number and exit

-h, --help	show help message and exit

--no-guessing-deps	disable guessing dependencies

--no-dbg-cleaning	do not remove any files from debug packages
    
--no-ext-rename	do not add magic tags nor multiarch tuples to extension file names

--no-shebang-rewrite	do not rewrite shebangs

--skip-private	don't check private directories

-v, --verbose	turn verbose mode on

-i, --indep	act on architecture independent packages

-a, --arch	act on architecture dependent packages

-q, --quiet	be quiet

-p PACKAGE, --package=PACKAGE	act on the package named PACKAGE

-N NO_PACKAGE, --no-package=NO_PACKAGE	do not act on the specified package

-X REGEXPR, --exclude=REGEXPR	exclude items that match given REGEXPR. You may
  use this option multiple times to build up a list of things to exclude.

--compile-all	compile all files from given private directory in postinst/rtupdate
  not just the ones provided by the package (i.e. do not pass the --package
  parameter to py3compile/py3clean)

--depends=DEPENDS	translate given requirements into Debian dependencies
  and add them to ${pypy:Depends}. Use it for missing items in requires.txt

--recommends=RECOMMENDS		translate given requirements into Debian dependencies
  and add them to ${pypy:Recommends}

--suggests=SUGGESTS	translate given requirements into Debian dependencies
  and add them to ${pypy:Suggests}

--requires=FILENAME	translate requirements from given file(s) into Debian
  dependencies and add them to ${pypy:Depends}

--shebang=COMMAND	use given command as shebang in scripts

--ignore-shebangs	do not translate shebangs into Debian dependencies

SEE ALSO
========
* /usr/share/doc/dh-python/README.PyDist
* pybuild(1)
* http://deb.li/dhpy - most recent version of this document
