pybuild.rst, before:

=========
 pybuild
=========

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
invokes various build systems for requested Python versions in order to build modules and extensions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1
:Author: Piotr Ożarowski, 2012-2013

SYNOPSIS
========
  pybuild [ACTION] [BUILD SYSTEM ARGUMENTS] [DIRECTORIES] [OPTIONS]

OPTIONS
=======
  Most options can be set (in addition to command line) via environment
  variables. PyBuild will check:

  * PYBUILD_OPTION_VERSIONED_INTERPRETER (f.e. PYBUILD_CLEAN_ARGS_python3.2)
  * PYBUILD_OPTION_INTERPRETER (f.e. PYBUILD_CONFIGURE_ARGS_python3-dbg)
  * PYBUILD_OPTION (f.e. PYBUILD_INSTALL_ARGS)

optional arguments
------------------
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose         turn verbose mode on
  -q, --quiet           doesn't show external command's output
  -qq, --really-quiet   be quiet
  --version             show program's version number and exit

ACTION
------
  The default is to build, install and test the library using detected build
  system version by version. Selecting one of following actions, will invoke
  given action for all versions - one by one - which (contrary to the default
  action) in some build systems can overwrite previous results.

    --detect
        return the name of detected build system
    --clean
        clean files using auto-detected build system specific methods
    --configure
        invoke configure step for all requested Python versions
    --build
        invoke build step for all requested Python versions
    --install
        invoke install step for all requested Python versions
    --test
        invoke tests for auto-detected build system
    --list-systems
        list available build systems and exit

TESTS
-----
    unittest's discover from standard library (available in Python 2.7 and
    >= 3.2) is used in test step by default.

    --test-nose
        use nose module in test step, remember to add python-nose and/or
        python3-nose to Build-Depends
    --test-pytest
        use pytest module in test step, remember to add python-pytest and/or
        python3-pytest to Build-Depends

BUILD SYSTEM ARGUMENTS
----------------------
  Additional arguments passed to the build system.
  --system=custom requires complete command.

    --before-clean COMMAND
        invoked before the clean command
    --clean-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to clean command generated by build system plugin
    --after-clean COMMAND
        invoked after the clean command
    --before-configure COMMAND
        invoked before the configure command
    --configure-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to configure command generated by build system plugin
    --after-configure COMMAND
        invoked after the configure command
    --before-build COMMAND
        invoked before the build command
    --build-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to build command generated by build system plugin
    --after-build COMMAND
        invoked after the build command
    --before-install COMMAND
        invoked before the install command
    --install-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to install command generated by build system plugin
    --after-install COMMAND
        invoked after the install command
    --before-test COMMAND
        invoked before the test command
    --test-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to test command generated by build system plugin
    --after-test COMMAND
        invoked after the test command

variables that can be used in `ARGUMENTS` and `COMMAND`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* `{version}` will be replaced with current Python version,
  you can also use `{version.major}`, `{version.minor}`, etc.
* `{interpreter}` will be replaced with current interpreter,
* `{dir}` will be replaced with sources directory,
* `{destdir}` will be replaced with destination directory,
* `{home_dir}` will be replaced with temporary HOME directory,
  where plugins can keep their data
  (.pybuild/interpreter_version/ by default),
* `{build_dir}` will be replaced with build directory
* `{install_dir}` will be replaced with install directory.

DIRECTORIES
-----------
  -d DIR, --dir DIR
      set source files directory - base for other relative dirs
      [by default: current working directory]
  --dest-dir DIR
      set destination directory [default: debian/tmp]
  --ext-dest-dir DIR
      set destination directory for .so files
  --ext-pattern PATTERN
      regular expression for files that should be moved if --ext-destdir is set
      [default: `\.so(\.[^/]*)?$`]
  --install-dir DIR
      set installation directory [default: .../dist-packages]

variables that can be used in `DIR`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* `{version}` will be replaced with current Python version,
* `{interpreter}` will be replaced with selected interpreter.

LIMITATIONS
-----------
  -s SYSTEM, --system SYSTEM
	select a build system [default: auto-detection]
  -p VERSIONS, --pyver VERSIONS
        build for Python VERSIONS. This option can be used multiple times.
        Versions can be separated by space character.
        The default is all Python 3.X supported versions.
  -i INTERPRETER, --interpreter INTERPRETER
	change interpreter [default: python{version}]
  --disable ITEMS
        disable action, interpreter, version or any mix of them.

disable examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* `--disable test/python2.5-dbg` - disables tests for python2.5-dbg
* `--disable '2.4 2.7'` - disables all actions for version 2.4 and 2.7
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE_python2=1` - disables all actions for Python 2.X
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE_python3.3=test` - disables tests for Python 3.3
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE=test/python3.3` - same as above
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE='configure/python3 2.4 pypy'` - disables configure
  action for all python3 interpreters, all actions for version 2.4, and
  all actions for pypy

DEBHELPER COMMAND SEQUENCER INTEGRATION
=======================================
* build depend on dh-python
* build depend on python3-all, python-all-dbg, pypy, etc.
* add "--buildsystem=pybuild" to dh's arguments in debian/rules
* if more than one binary package is build:
  add debian/python-foo.install files, or
  export PYBUILD_DESTDIR env. variables in debian/rules 

debian/rules file example::

 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python2=debian/python-foo/
 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python2-dbg=debian/python-foo-dbg/
 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python3=debian/python3-foo/
 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python3-dbg=debian/python3-foo-dbg/
 %:
  	dh $@ --with python2,python3 --buildsystem=pybuild

overriding test command example::

 override_dh_auto_test:
 	PYBUILD_SYSTEM=custom \
 	PYBUILD_TEST_ARGS="nosetests --with-doctest {build_dir}/" dh_auto_test

SEE ALSO
========
* dh_python2(1)
* dh_python3(1)
* http://deb.li/pybuild - most recent version of this document

Commit message:

pybuild: add --test-tox option

pybuild.rst, after:

=========
 pybuild
=========

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
invokes various build systems for requested Python versions in order to build modules and extensions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1
:Author: Piotr Ożarowski, 2012-2013

SYNOPSIS
========
  pybuild [ACTION] [BUILD SYSTEM ARGUMENTS] [DIRECTORIES] [OPTIONS]

OPTIONS
=======
  Most options can be set (in addition to command line) via environment
  variables. PyBuild will check:

  * PYBUILD_OPTION_VERSIONED_INTERPRETER (f.e. PYBUILD_CLEAN_ARGS_python3.2)
  * PYBUILD_OPTION_INTERPRETER (f.e. PYBUILD_CONFIGURE_ARGS_python3-dbg)
  * PYBUILD_OPTION (f.e. PYBUILD_INSTALL_ARGS)

optional arguments
------------------
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose         turn verbose mode on
  -q, --quiet           doesn't show external command's output
  -qq, --really-quiet   be quiet
  --version             show program's version number and exit

ACTION
------
  The default is to build, install and test the library using detected build
  system version by version. Selecting one of following actions, will invoke
  given action for all versions - one by one - which (contrary to the default
  action) in some build systems can overwrite previous results.

    --detect
        return the name of detected build system
    --clean
        clean files using auto-detected build system specific methods
    --configure
        invoke configure step for all requested Python versions
    --build
        invoke build step for all requested Python versions
    --install
        invoke install step for all requested Python versions
    --test
        invoke tests for auto-detected build system
    --list-systems
        list available build systems and exit

TESTS
-----
    unittest's discover from standard library (available in Python 2.7 and
    >= 3.2) is used in test step by default.

    --test-nose
        use nose module in test step, remember to add python-nose and/or
        python3-nose to Build-Depends
    --test-pytest
        use pytest module in test step, remember to add python-pytest and/or
        python3-pytest to Build-Depends
    --test-tox
        use tox command in test step, remember to add python-tox
        to Build-Depends. Requires tox.ini file

BUILD SYSTEM ARGUMENTS
----------------------
  Additional arguments passed to the build system.
  --system=custom requires complete command.

    --before-clean COMMAND
        invoked before the clean command
    --clean-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to clean command generated by build system plugin
    --after-clean COMMAND
        invoked after the clean command
    --before-configure COMMAND
        invoked before the configure command
    --configure-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to configure command generated by build system plugin
    --after-configure COMMAND
        invoked after the configure command
    --before-build COMMAND
        invoked before the build command
    --build-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to build command generated by build system plugin
    --after-build COMMAND
        invoked after the build command
    --before-install COMMAND
        invoked before the install command
    --install-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to install command generated by build system plugin
    --after-install COMMAND
        invoked after the install command
    --before-test COMMAND
        invoked before the test command
    --test-args ARGUMENTS
        arguments added to test command generated by build system plugin
    --after-test COMMAND
        invoked after the test command

variables that can be used in `ARGUMENTS` and `COMMAND`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* `{version}` will be replaced with current Python version,
  you can also use `{version.major}`, `{version.minor}`, etc.
* `{interpreter}` will be replaced with current interpreter,
* `{dir}` will be replaced with sources directory,
* `{destdir}` will be replaced with destination directory,
* `{home_dir}` will be replaced with temporary HOME directory,
  where plugins can keep their data
  (.pybuild/interpreter_version/ by default),
* `{build_dir}` will be replaced with build directory
* `{install_dir}` will be replaced with install directory.

DIRECTORIES
-----------
  -d DIR, --dir DIR
      set source files directory - base for other relative dirs
      [by default: current working directory]
  --dest-dir DIR
      set destination directory [default: debian/tmp]
  --ext-dest-dir DIR
      set destination directory for .so files
  --ext-pattern PATTERN
      regular expression for files that should be moved if --ext-destdir is set
      [default: `\.so(\.[^/]*)?$`]
  --install-dir DIR
      set installation directory [default: .../dist-packages]

variables that can be used in `DIR`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* `{version}` will be replaced with current Python version,
* `{interpreter}` will be replaced with selected interpreter.

LIMITATIONS
-----------
  -s SYSTEM, --system SYSTEM
	select a build system [default: auto-detection]
  -p VERSIONS, --pyver VERSIONS
        build for Python VERSIONS. This option can be used multiple times.
        Versions can be separated by space character.
        The default is all Python 3.X supported versions.
  -i INTERPRETER, --interpreter INTERPRETER
	change interpreter [default: python{version}]
  --disable ITEMS
        disable action, interpreter, version or any mix of them.

disable examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* `--disable test/python2.5-dbg` - disables tests for python2.5-dbg
* `--disable '2.4 2.7'` - disables all actions for version 2.4 and 2.7
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE_python2=1` - disables all actions for Python 2.X
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE_python3.3=test` - disables tests for Python 3.3
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE=test/python3.3` - same as above
* `PYBUILD_DISABLE='configure/python3 2.4 pypy'` - disables configure
  action for all python3 interpreters, all actions for version 2.4, and
  all actions for pypy

DEBHELPER COMMAND SEQUENCER INTEGRATION
=======================================
* build depend on dh-python
* build depend on python3-all, python-all-dbg, pypy, etc.
* add "--buildsystem=pybuild" to dh's arguments in debian/rules
* if more than one binary package is build:
  add debian/python-foo.install files, or
  export PYBUILD_DESTDIR env. variables in debian/rules 

debian/rules file example::

 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python2=debian/python-foo/
 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python2-dbg=debian/python-foo-dbg/
 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python3=debian/python3-foo/
 export PYBUILD_DESTDIR_python3-dbg=debian/python3-foo-dbg/
 %:
  	dh $@ --with python2,python3 --buildsystem=pybuild

overriding test command example::

 override_dh_auto_test:
 	PYBUILD_SYSTEM=custom \
 	PYBUILD_TEST_ARGS="nosetests --with-doctest {build_dir}/" dh_auto_test

SEE ALSO
========
* dh_python2(1)
* dh_python3(1)
* http://deb.li/pybuild - most recent version of this document
